Approved algorithms
Many web applications use a combination of symmetric and asymmetric encryption. This is how they balance user experience with safeguarding information. As an analyst, you should be aware of the most widely-used algorithms.

Symmetric algorithms
Triple DES (3DES) is known as a block cipher because of the way it converts plaintext into ciphertext in “blocks.” Its origins trace back to the Data Encryption Standard (DES), which was developed in the early 1970s. DES was one of the earliest symmetric encryption algorithms that generated 64-bit keys, although only 56 bits are used for encryption. A bit is the smallest unit of data measurement on a computer. As you might imagine, Triple DES generates keys that are three times as long. Triple DES applies the DES algorithm three times, using three different 56-bit keys. This results in an effective key length of 168 bits. Despite the longer keys, many organizations are moving away from using Triple DES due to limitations on the amount of data that can be encrypted. However, Triple DES is likely to remain in use for backwards compatibility purposes.   

Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is one of the most secure symmetric algorithms today. AES generates keys that are 128, 192, or 256 bits. Cryptographic keys of this size are considered to be safe from brute force attacks. It’s estimated that brute forcing an AES 128-bit key could take a modern computer billions of years!

Asymmetric algorithms
Rivest Shamir Adleman (RSA) is named after its three creators who developed it while at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). RSA is one of the first asymmetric encryption algorithms that produces a public and private key pair. Asymmetric algorithms like RSA produce even longer key lengths. In part, this is due to the fact that these functions are creating two keys. RSA key sizes are 1,024, 2,048, or 4,096 bits. RSA is mainly used to protect highly sensitive data.

Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) is a standard asymmetric algorithm that was introduced by NIST in the early 1990s. DSA also generates key lengths of 2,048 bits. This algorithm is widely used today as a complement to RSA in public key infrastructure.

Generating keys
These algorithms must be implemented when an organization chooses one to protect their data. One way this is done is using OpenSSL, which is an open-source command line tool that can be used to generate public and private keys. OpenSSL is commonly used by computers to verify digital certificates that are exchanged as part of public key infrastructure.

Note: OpenSSL is just one option. There are various others available that can generate keys with any of these common algorithms. 

In early 2014, OpenSSL disclosed a vulnerability, known as the 
Heartbleed bug
, that exposed sensitive data in the memory of websites and applications. Although unpatched versions of OpenSSL are still available, the Heartbleed bug was patched later that year (2014).