SIEM tools can also be used to create dashboards. You might have encountered dashboards in an app on your phone or other device. They present information about your account or location in a format that's easy to understand.

For example, weather apps display data like temperature, precipitation, wind speed, and the forecast using charts, graphs, and other visual elements. This format makes it easy to quickly identify weather patterns and trends, so you can stay prepared and plan your day accordingly.


For example, a security analyst receives an alert about a suspicious login attempt. The analyst accesses their SIEM dashboard to gather information about this alert. Using the dashboard, the analyst discovers that there have been 500 login attempts for Ymara's account in the span of five-minutes. They also discover that the login attempts happened from geographic locations outside of Ymara's usual location and outside of her usual working hours. By using a dashboard, the security analyst was able to quickly review visual representations of the timeline of the login attempts, the location, and the exact time of the activity, then determine that the activity was suspicious.

In addition to providing a comprehensive summary of security-related data, SIEM dashboards also provide stakeholders with different metrics. Metrics are key technical attributes such as response time, availability, and failure rate, which are used to assess the performance of a software application.

The implementation of automation will also help security teams respond faster to possible incidents, performing many actions without waiting for a human response. Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) is a collection of applications, tools, and workflows that uses automation to respond to security events. Essentially, this means that handling common security-related incidents with the use of SIEM tools is expected to become a more streamlined process requiring less manual intervention. This frees up security analysts to handle more complex and uncommon incidents that, consequently, can’t be automated with a SOAR. Nevertheless, the expectation is for cybersecurity-related platforms to communicate and interact with one another. Although the technology allowing interconnected systems and devices to communicate with each other exists, it is still a work in progress.