Penetration testing
A penetration test, or pen test, is a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and processes. The simulated attack in a pen test involves using the same tools and techniques as malicious actors in order to mimic a real life attack. Since a pen test is an authorized attack, it is considered to be a form of ethical hacking. Unlike a vulnerability assessment that finds weaknesses in a system's security, a pen test exploits those weaknesses to determine the potential consequences if the system breaks or gets broken into by a threat actor.

For example, the cybersecurity team at a financial company might simulate an attack on their banking app to determine if there are weaknesses that would allow an attacker to steal customer information or illegally transfer funds. If the pen test uncovers misconfigurations, the team can address them and improve the overall security of the app.  



Learning from varied perspectives
These authorized attacks are performed by pen testers who are skilled in programming and network architecture. Depending on their objectives, organizations might use a few different approaches to penetration testing:

Red team tests simulate attacks to identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, or applications.

Blue team tests focus on defense and incident response to validate an organization's existing security systems.

Purple team tests are collaborative, focusing on improving the security posture of the organization by combining elements of red and blue team exercises.

Red team tests are commonly performed by independent pen testers who are hired to evaluate internal systems. 

Penetration testing strategies
There are three common penetration testing strategies: 

Open-box testing is when the tester has the same privileged access that an internal developer would have—information like system architecture, data flow, and network diagrams. This strategy goes by several different names, including internal, full knowledge, white-box, and clear-box penetration testing.

Closed-box testing is when the tester has little to no access to internal systems—similar to a malicious hacker. This strategy is sometimes referred to as external, black-box, or zero knowledge penetration testing.

Partial knowledge testing is when the tester has limited access and knowledge of an internal system—for example, a customer service representative. This strategy is also known as gray-box testing.


Becoming a penetration tester
Penetration testers are in-demand in the fast growing field of cybersecurity. All of the skills you’re learning in this program can help you advance towards a career in pen testing:

Network and application security

Experience with operating systems, like Linux

Vulnerability analysis and threat modeling

Detection and response tools

Programming languages, like Python and BASH

Communication skills

Programming skills are very helpful in penetration testing because it's often performed on software and IT systems. With enough practice and dedication, cybersecurity professionals at any level can develop the skills needed to be a pen tester.