The Importance of an Update:

Common update strategies
When software updates become available, clients and users have two installation options:

Manual updates, and Automatic updates
Manual updates
A manual deployment strategy relies on IT departments or users obtaining updates from the developers. Home office or small business environments might require you to find, download, and install updates yourself. In enterprise settings, the process is usually handled with a configuration management tool. These tools offer a range of options to deploy updates, like to all clients on your network or a select group of users.  

Advantage: An advantage of manual update deployment strategies is control. That can be useful if software updates are not thoroughly tested by developers, leading to instability issues.

Disadvantage: A drawback to manual update deployments is that critical updates can be forgotten or disregarded entirely.

Automatic updates
An automatic deployment strategy takes the opposite approach. With this option, finding, downloading, and installing updates can be done by the system or application.

Pro tip: The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) recommends using automatic options whenever they’re available.

Certain permissions need to be enabled by users or IT groups before updates can be installed, or pushed, when they're available. It is up to the developers to adequately test their patches before release.

Advantage: An advantage to automatic updates is that the deployment process is simplified. It also keeps systems and software current with the latest, critical patches.

Disadvantage: A drawback to automatic updates is that instability issues can occur if the patches were not thoroughly tested by the vendor. This can result in performance problems and a poor user experience.
Patching gaps in security
An outdated computer is a lot like a house with unlocked doors. Malicious actors use these gaps in security the same way, to gain unauthorized access. Software updates are similar to locking the doors to keep them out.

A patch update is a software and operating system update that addresses security vulnerabilities within a program or product. Patches usually contain bug fixes that address common security vulnerabilities and exposures.

End-of-life software
Sometimes updates are not available for a certain type of software known as end-of-life (EOL) software. All software has a lifecycle. It begins when it’s produced and ends when a newer version is released. At that point, developers must allocate resources to the newer versions, which leads to EOL software. While the older software is still useful, the manufacturer no longer supports it. 