The data lifecycle
The data lifecycle is an important model that security teams consider when protecting information. It influences how they set policies that align with business objectives. It also plays an important role in the technologies security teams use to make information accessible.

In general, the data lifecycle has five stages. Each describes how data flows through an organization from the moment it is created until it is no longer useful: Collect, Store, Use, Archive, Destroy.


Data governance
Businesses handle massive amounts of data every day. New information is constantly being collected from internal and external sources. A structured approach to managing all of this data is the best way to keep it private and secure.

Data governance is a set of processes that define how an organization manages information. Governance often includes policies that specify how to keep data private, accurate, available, and secure throughout its lifecycle.

Effective data governance is a collaborative activity that relies on people. Data governance policies commonly categorize individuals into a specific role:

Data owner: the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information.

Data custodian: anyone or anything that's responsible for the safe handling, transport, and storage of information.

Data steward: the person or group that maintains and implements data governance policies set by an organization.


Legally protected information

Securing data can be challenging. In large part, that's because data owners generate more data than they can manage. As a result, data custodians and stewards sometimes lack direct, explicit instructions on how they should handle specific types of data. Governments and other regulatory agencies have bridged this gap by creating rules that specify the types of information that organizations must protect by default:

PII is any information used to infer an individual's identity. Personally identifiable information, or PII, refers to information that can be used to contact or locate someone.

PHI stands for protected health information.  In the U.S., it is regulated by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which defines PHI as “information that relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual.” In the EU, PHI has a similar definition but it is regulated by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

SPII is a specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines. The S stands for sensitive, meaning this is a type of personally identifiable information that should only be accessed on a need-to-know basis, such as a bank account number or login credentials.