Cloud computing is a model for allowing convenient and on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources. These resources can be configured and released with minimal management effort or interaction with the service provider. 

Cloud security considerations
Many organizations choose to use cloud services because of the ease of deployment, speed of deployment, cost savings, and scalability of these options. Cloud computing presents unique security challenges that cybersecurity analysts need to be aware of. 

Identity access management
Identity access management (IAM) is a collection of processes and technologies that help organizations manage digital identities in their environment. This service also authorizes how users can use different cloud resources. A common problem that organizations face when using the cloud is the loose configuration of cloud user roles. An improperly configured user role increases risk by allowing unauthorized users to have access to critical cloud operations. 

Configuration
The expanding cloud ecosystem introduces significant complexity to network management. Each cloud service necessitates precise configuration to uphold security and compliance standards. This challenge intensifies during cloud migrations, where ensuring accurate configuration for every migrated process is critical. Neglect in this area can expose the network to vulnerabilities. Misconfigured cloud services are a frequent source of security breaches, underscoring the importance of meticulous attention to detail by network administrators and architects during the migration and ongoing management of cloud services.

Attack surface 
Cloud service providers (CSPs) offer numerous applications and services for organizations at a low cost. 

Every service or application on a network carries its own set of risks and vulnerabilities and increases an organization’s overall attack surface. An increased attack surface must be compensated for with increased security measures.

Cloud networks that utilize many services introduce lots of entry points into an organization’s network. However, if the network is designed correctly, utilizing several services does not introduce more entry points into an organization’s network design. These entry points can be used to introduce malware onto the network and pose other security vulnerabilities. It is important to note that CSPs often defer to more secure options, and have undergone more scrutiny than a traditional on-premises network.

Zero-day attacks
Zero-day attacks are an important security consideration for organizations using cloud or traditional on-premise network solutions. A zero-day attack is an exploit that was previously unknown. CSPs are more likely to know about a zero-day attack occurring before a traditional IT organization does. CSPs have ways of patching hypervisors and migrating workloads to other virtual machines. These methods ensure the customers are not impacted by the attack. There are also several tools available for patching at the operating system level that organizations can use.