Cloud security hardening
There are various techniques and tools that can be used to secure cloud network infrastructure and resources. Some common cloud security hardening techniques include incorporating IAM, hypervisors, baselining, cryptography, and cryptographic erasure.

Identity access management (IAM)
Identity access management (IAM) is a collection of processes and technologies that help organizations manage digital identities in their environment. This service also enables users to leverage various cloud resources.

Hypervisors
A hypervisor abstracts the host’s hardware from the operating software environment. There are two types of hypervisors. Type one hypervisors run on the hardware of the host computer. An example of a type one hypervisor is VMware®'s ESXi. Type two hypervisors operate on the software of the host computer. An example of a type two hypervisor is VirtualBox. Cloud service providers (CSPs) commonly use type one hypervisors. CSPs are responsible for managing the hypervisor and other virtualization components. The CSP ensures that cloud resources and cloud environments are available, and it  provides regular patches and updates. Vulnerabilities in hypervisors or misconfigurations can lead to virtual machine escapes (VM escapes). A VM escape is an exploit where a malicious actor gains access to the primary hypervisor, potentially the host computer and other VMs. As a CSP customer, you will rarely deal with hypervisors directly.

Baselining
Baselining for cloud networks and operations cover how the cloud environment is configured and set up. A baseline is a fixed reference point. This reference point can be used to compare changes made to a cloud environment. Proper configuration and setup can greatly improve the security and performance of a cloud environment. Examples of establishing a baseline in a cloud environment include: restricting access to the admin portal of the cloud environment, enabling password management, enabling file encryption, and enabling threat detection services for SQL databases.

Cryptography in the cloud
Cryptography can be applied to secure data that is processed and stored in a cloud environment. Cryptography uses encryption and secure key management systems to provide data integrity and confidentiality. Cryptographic encryption is one of the key ways to secure sensitive data and information in the cloud.

Encryption is the process of scrambling information into ciphertext, which is not readable to anyone without the encryption key. Encryption primarily originated from manually encoding messages and information using an algorithm to convert any given letter or number to a new value. Modern encryption relies on the secrecy of a key, rather than the secrecy of an algorithm. Cryptography is an important tool that helps secure cloud networks and data at rest to prevent unauthorized access. You’ll learn more about cryptography in-depth in an upcoming course.

Cryptographic erasure
Cryptographic erasure is a method of erasing the encryption key for the encrypted data. When destroying data in the cloud, more traditional methods of data destruction are not as effective. Crypto-shredding is a newer technique where the cryptographic keys used for decrypting the data are destroyed. This makes the data undecipherable and prevents anyone from decrypting the data. When crypto-shredding, all copies of the key need to be destroyed so no one has any opportunity to access the data in the future.