Firewall
So far in this course, you learned about stateless firewalls, stateful firewalls, and next-generation firewalls (NGFWs), and the security advantages of each of them.

Most firewalls are similar in their basic functions. Firewalls allow or block traffic based on a set of rules. As data packets enter a network, the packet header is inspected and allowed or denied based on its port number. NGFWs are also able to inspect packet payloads. Each system should have its own firewall, regardless of the network firewall.

Intrusion Detection System 
An intrusion detection system (IDS) is an application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions. An IDS alerts administrators based on the signature of malicious traffic.

The IDS is configured to detect known attacks. IDS systems often sniff data packets as they move across the network and analyze them for the characteristics of known attacks. Some IDS systems review not only for signatures of known attacks, but also for anomalies that could be the sign of malicious activity. When the IDS discovers an anomaly, it sends an alert to the network administrator who can then investigate further.

The limitations to IDS systems are that they can only scan for known attacks or obvious anomalies. New and sophisticated attacks might not be caught. The other limitation is that the IDS doesn’t actually stop the incoming traffic if it detects something awry. It’s up to the network administrator to catch the malicious activity before it does anything damaging to the network. 


When combined with a firewall, an IDS adds another layer of defense. The IDS is placed behind the firewall and before entering the LAN, which allows the IDS to analyze data streams after network traffic that is disallowed by the firewall has been filtered out. This is done to reduce noise in IDS alerts, also referred to as false positives.

Intrusion Prevention System 
An intrusion prevention system (IPS) is an application that monitors system activity for intrusive activity and takes action to stop the activity. It offers even more protection than an IDS because it actively stops anomalies when they are detected, unlike the IDS that simply reports the anomaly to a network administrator.

An IPS searches for signatures of known attacks and data anomalies. An IPS reports the anomaly to security analysts and blocks a specific sender or drops network packets that seem suspect. 

The IPS (like an IDS) sits behind the firewall in the network architecture. This offers a high level of security because risky data streams are disrupted before they even reach sensitive parts of the network. However, one potential limitation is that it is inline: If it breaks, the connection between the private network and the internet breaks. Another limitation of IPS is the possibility of false positives, which can result in legitimate traffic getting dropped.