The operating system is the interface between computer hardware and the user. The OS is the first program loaded when a computer turns on. The OS acts as an intermediary between software applications and the computer hardware. It's important to secure the OS in each system because one insecure OS can lead to a whole network being compromised. There are many types of operating systems, and they all share similar security hardening practices.

Some OS hardening tasks are performed at regular intervals, like updates, backups, and keeping an up-to-date list of devices and authorized users. Other tasks are performed only once as part of preliminary safety measures. One example would be configuring a device setting to fit a secure encryption standard. Let's begin with OS hardening tasks that are performed at a regular interval, such as patch installation, also known as patch updates. A patch update is a software and operating system, or OS, update that addresses security vulnerabilities within a program or product. Now we'll discuss patch updates provided to the company by the OS software vendor.


A baseline configuration is a documented set of specifications within a system that is used as a basis for future builds, releases, and updates. For example, a baseline may contain a firewall rule with a list of allowed and disallowed network ports. If a security team suspects unusual activity affecting the OS, they can compare the current configuration to the baseline and make sure that nothing has been changed. Another hardening task performed regularly is hardware and software disposal. This ensures that all old hardware is properly wiped and disposed of.


The final OS hardening technique that we'll discuss is implementing a strong password policy. Strong password policies require that passwords follow specific rules. For example, an organization may set a password policy that requires a minimum of eight characters, a capital letter, a number, and a symbol. To discourage malicious actors, a password policy usually states that a user will lose access to the network after entering the wrong password a certain number of times in a row. Some systems also require multi-factor authentication, or MFA. 