Cloud security
Shifting applications and infrastructure over to the cloud can make it easier to operate an online business. It can also complicate keeping data private and safe. Cloud security is a growing subfield of cybersecurity that specifically focuses on the protection of data, applications, and infrastructure in the cloud.

In a traditional model, organizations had their entire IT infrastructure on premises. Protecting those systems was entirely up to the internal security team in that environment. These responsibilities are not so clearly defined when part or all of an operational environment is in the cloud.

For example, a PaaS client pays to access the resources they need to build their applications. So, it is reasonable to expect them to be responsible for securing the apps they build. On the other hand, the responsibility for maintaining the security of the servers they are accessing should belong to the cloud service provider because there are other clients using the same systems.

In cloud security, this concept is known as the shared responsibility model. Clients are commonly responsible for securing anything that is directly within their control:

Identity and access management

Resource configuration

Data handling


Cloud security challenges
All service providers do their best to deliver secure products to their customers. Much of their success depends on preventing breaches and how well they can protect sensitive information. However, since data is stored in the cloud and accessed over the internet, several challenges arise:

Misconfiguration is one of the biggest concerns. Customers of cloud-based services are responsible for configuring their own security environment. Oftentimes, they use out-of-the-box configurations that fail to address their specific security objectives.

Cloud-native breaches are more likely to occur due to misconfigured services.

Monitoring access might be difficult depending on the client and level of service.

Meeting regulatory standards is also a concern, particularly in industries that are required by law to follow specific requirements such as HIPAA, PCI DSS, and GDPR.