

Fortify against brute force cyber attacks
Usernames and passwords are one of the most common and important security controls in use today. They’re like the door lock that organizations use to restrict access to their networks, services, and data. But a major issue with relying on login credentials as a critical line of defense is that they’re vulnerable to being stolen and guessed by attackers.

In a video, you learned that brute force attacks are a trial-and-error process of discovering private information. In this reading, you’ll learn about the many tactics and tools used by threat actors to perform brute force attacks. You’ll also learn prevention strategies that organizations can use to defend against them.

A matter of trial and error
One way of opening a closed lock is trying as many combinations as possible. Threat actors sometimes use similar tactics to gain access to an application or a network. 

Attackers use a variety of tactics to find their way into a system:

Simple brute force attacks are an approach in which attackers guess a user's login credentials. They might do this by entering any combination of username and password that they can think of until they find the one that works.

Dictionary attacks are a similar technique except in these instances attackers use a list of commonly used credentials to access a system. This list is similar to matching a definition to a word in a dictionary.

Reverse brute force attacks are similar to dictionary attacks, except they start with a single credential and try it in various systems until a match is found.



Tools of the trade
There are so many combinations that can be used to create a single set of login credentials. The number of characters, letters, and numbers that can be mixed together is truly incredible. When done manually, it could take someone years to try every possible combination.

Instead of dedicating the time to do this, attackers often use software to do the guess work for them. These are some common brute forcing tools:

Aircrack-ng, Hashcat, John the Ripper, Ophcrack, and THC Hydra

Prevention measures
Organizations defend against brute force attacks with a combination of technical and managerial controls. Each make cracking defense systems through brute force less likely:

Hashing and salting, Multi-factor authentication (MFA), CAPTCHA, and Password policies:

Hashing and salting
Hashing converts information into a unique value that can then be used to determine its integrity. Salting is an additional safeguard that’s used to strengthen hash functions. It works by adding random characters to data, like passwords. This increases the length and complexity of hash values, making them harder to brute force and less susceptible to dictionary attacks.