One of the most popular libraries of vulnerabilities and exposures is the CVE list. The common vulnerabilities and exposures list, or CVE list, is an openly accessible dictionary of known vulnerabilities and exposures. It is a popular resource. 

Many organizations use a CVE list to find ways to improve their defenses. The CVE list was originally created by MITRE corporation. Their focus is on improving security technologies around the world. The main purpose of the CVE list is to offer a standard way of identifying and categorizing known vulnerabilities and exposures. Most CVEs in the list are reported by independent researchers, technology vendors, and ethical hackers, but anyone can report one. 

Before a CVE can make it onto the CVE list, it first goes through a strict review process by a CVE Numbering Authority, or CNA. A CNA is an organization that volunteers to analyze and distribute information on eligible CVEs. All of these groups have an established record of researching vulnerabilities and demonstrating security advisory capabilities. When a vulnerability or exposure is reported to them, a rigorous testing process takes place. The CVE list tests four criteria that a vulnerability must have before it's assigned an ID. First, it must be independent of other issues. In other words, the vulnerability should be able to be fixed without having to fix something else. 

Second, it must be recognized as a potential security risk by whoever reports it. Third, the vulnerability must be submitted with supporting evidence. And finally, the reported vulnerability can only affect one codebase, or in other words, only one program's source code. For instance, the desktop version of Chrome may be vulnerable, but the Android application may not be. If the reported flaw passes all of these tests, it is assigned a CVE ID. Vulnerabilities added to the CVE list are often reviewed by other online vulnerability databases. These organizations put them through additional tests to reveal how significant the flaws are and to determine what kind of threat they pose. 